### Data Access Agreement

A St. Jude Cloud **Data Access Agreement (DAA)** is a legally binding document outlining a number of terms and conditions to which anyone working with St. Jude Cloud data must agree.
We do not negotiate the terms of this document unless terms are found to be in conflict with the institution's state law. Filling out the Data Access Agreement carefully and completely is crucial to having your request approved promptly.
[Click Here](./guides/forms/how-to-fill-out-DAA) for a step by step guide on how to fill out the DAA.

If you have incompletely or incorrectly filled out your DAA and would like to upload a revised form, [Click Here](./guides/forms/how-to-fill-out-DAA#uploading-a-revised-daa) for instructions.

Once you have submitted a correctly filled out DAA and have been granted access to one or more [Data Access Units (DAUs)](#data-access-unit), you can continue checking out files from those DAUs until your access expires. Access is generally granted for 1 year, at which point you must submit an Extension Addendum to continue using the data. [Click Here](./guides/forms/how-to-fill-out-Extension) for a step-by-step guide on how to fill out the Extension Addendum.

### Data Access Committee

A St. Jude Cloud **Data Access Committee (DAC)** is group of St. Jude researchers who oversee access to a particular [Data Access Unit (DAU)](#data-access-unit) and evaluate incoming data requests.

The first time you request access to files in 
a DAU, it is required that you fill out a [Data Access Agreement (DAA)](#data-access-agreement). Access is granted at the DAU level based on the decision of each DAC upon reviewing the DAA.

!!! example
    For example, if you make a request asking for all of St. Jude's Acute 
    Lymphoblastic Leukemia sequencing data, you might be asking for data from 
    multiple different projects (DAUs) here at St. Jude. For the sake of the example,
    let's say the data you want is spread across three different DAUs. Once
    you place a request, your application will be routed to the corresponding
    three data access committees for approval. Since each DAC is made up of
    different individuals using different criteria for evaluation, you may or
    may not be approved for access to all of the files. 

### Data Access Unit

A St. Jude Cloud **Data Access Unit (DAU)** is a grouping of data that typically corresponds to a project, study, or dataset generated at the same time at the same institution. Each DAU has its own governing body of researchers, the [Data Access Committee](#data-access-committee), who preside over the data and who may grant or deny access. We currently have the 5 DAUs detailed below.

#### Pediatric Cancer Genome Project (PCGP)
The primary purpose of the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital – Washington University Pediatric Cancer Genome Project (PCGP) is to identify all inherited and tumor-acquired (somatic) genome sequence and structural variants influencing the development and behaviour of childhood tumors. Additional objectives include, but are not limited to, the acquisition and analysis of additional genomic data, including epigenetic and gene expression data, data integration, and the development and validation of informatic and analytical solutions appropriate to the scale and nature of the project, as well as use of the data generated to answer important methodological and biological questions studies of tumor biology in general, and as specifically related to childhood malignancies.  

The PCGP anticipates that data generated from the project will be used by other researchers (scientists who are employed by, or a student enrolled at or legitimately affiliated with, an academic, non-profit, or government institution, or a commercial company) to develop new analytical methods, validate results, and identify additional genetic variations and alterations in the data.  

Authors who use data from the project must acknowledge the PCGP using the following wording "This study makes use of data generated by the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital – Washington University Pediatric Cancer Genome Project" and cite the relevant primary PCGP publication if one has been published. Specifically, authors using data for a given tumor type(s) must cite the publications arising from the PCGP that have described the results of the analyses of primary genomic data for the tumor type(s). Details of these publications are at the [PCGP website](https://pecan.stjude.org/permalink/pcgp).  

**Users should note that the PCGP bears no responsibility for the further analysis or interpretation of these data,over and above that published by the PCGP.**

#### St. Jude Lifetime Cohort Study (SJLIFE)
The primary purpose of the St. Jude Lifetime Cohort Study (SJLIFE) is to identify all inherited genome sequence and structural variants influencing the development of childhood cancer and occurrence of long-term adverse outcomes associated with cancer and cancer-related therapy. Additional objectives include, but are not limited to, the acquisition and analysis of additional genomic data, including epigenetic and gene expression data, data integration, and the development and validation of informatic and analytical solutions appropriate to the scale and nature of the project, as well as use of the data generated to answer important methodological and biological questions as specifically related to childhood malignancies.  

The SJLIFE investigators anticipate that data generated from the project will be used by other researchers (scientists who are employed by, or a student enrolled at or legitimately affiliated with, an academic, non- profit, or government institution, or a commercial company) to develop new analytical methods, validate results,and identify additional genetic variations and alterations in the data.  

Authors who use data from the project must acknowledge the SJLIFE study using the following wording "This study makes use of data generated by St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital as part of the St. Jude Life-time Cohort Study" and cite the relevant primary SJLIFE publication(s) if one has been published. Details of these publications are at the [SJLIFE website](https://pecan.stjude.org/permalink/sjlife).  

**Users should note that St. Jude and the SJLIFE investigators bear no responsibility for the further analysis or interpretation of these data,over and above that published by the SJLIFE study.**

#### Genomes for Kids (G4K) and Clinical Genomics
The primary purpose of the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital Genomes for Kids (G4K) research study is to identify all inherited and tumor-acquired (somatic) genome sequence and structural variants influencing the development and behavior of childhood tumors. Additional objectives include, but are not limited to, assessing the feasibility of a multiplatform next-generation sequencing test including whole genome sequencing in a clinical (CAP/CLIAA) environment and facilitating computational methods development to address important questions pertaining to tumor biology in general, and as specifically related to childhood malignancies.  

St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital anticipates that data generated from G4K and other clinical sequencing will be used by other researchers (scientists who are employed by, or a student enrolled at or legitimately affiliated with, an academic, non-profit, or government institution, or a commercial company) to develop new analytical methods,validate results, and identify additional genetic variations and alterations in the data.  

Authors who use data from G4K must acknowledge Genomes for Kids using the following wording "This study makes use of data generated by the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital Genomes for Kids Study" and cite the relevant primary G4K publication if one has been published. Details of these publications are at [this website](https://pecan.stjude.org/permalink/g4k).  

Authors who use non-G4K clinical genomics data must acknowledge St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital using the following wording: “This study make use of data generated by St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital” and cite the relevant publication if one has been published. The publications can be found at [this website](https://pecan.stjude.org/permalink/clingen).  

**Users should note that the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital bears no responsibility for the further analysis or interpretation of these data, over and above that published.**


#### Sickle Cell Genome Project (SGP)
The primary purpose of the SJCRH/BCM (St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital/Baylor College of Medicine) Sickle Cell Genome Project (SGP) is to identify genetic modifiers that contribute to various health complications in Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) patients. Additional objectives include, but are not limited to, developing accurate methods to characterize germline structural variants in highly homologous globin locus and blood typing.  

SJCRH/BCM anticipates that genomics data generated from SGP will be used by other researchers (scientists who are employed by, or a student enrolled at or legitimately affiliated with, an academic, non- profit, or government institution, or a commercial company) to develop new analytical methods, validate results, and identify additional genetic variations in the data.  

Authors who use data from SGP must acknowledge the SJCRH/BCM Sickle Cell Genome Project (SGP) using the following wording "This study makes use of data generated by SJCRH/BCM (St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital/Baylor College of Medicine) Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) Genomics Study," and must cite the relevant primary SJCRH/BCM SCD publication if one has been published. Details of these publications are at [this website](https://sickle-cell.stjude.cloud).  

**Users should note that the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital bears no responsibility for the further analysis or interpretation of these data, over and above that published.**

#### Childhood Cancer Survivor Study (CCSS)
The CCSS is a multi-institutional, multi-disciplinary, NCI-funded collaborative resource (U24 CA55727; PI: Gregory Armstrong) established to evaluate long-term outcomes among survivors of childhood cancer. It is a retrospective cohort consisting of >24,000 five-year survivors of childhood cancer who were diagnosed between 1970-1999 at one of 31 participating centers in the U.S. and Canada. Self-reported outcomes across a spectrum of chronic health conditions, psychosocial and cognitive function and physical function outcomes have informed over 330 publications to date enumerating risk for this aging population.  

In 2019 St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital completed whole genome and whole exome sequencing on just under 3,000 survivors diagnosed 1987-1999, now available on the St. Cloud. The primary purpose of this sequencing of CCSS participants is to identify all inherited genome sequence and structural variants influencing the development of childhood cancer and occurrence of long-term adverse outcomes associated with cancer and cancer-related therapy. Additional objectives include, but are not limited to, the acquisition and analysis of additional genomic data, including epigenetic and gene expression data, data integration, and the development
and validation of informatic and analytical solutions appropriate to the scale and nature of the project, as well as use of the data generated to answer important methodological and biological questions as specifically related to childhood malignancies.  

CCSS investigators anticipate that data generated from the project will be used by other researchers (scientists who are employed by, or a student enrolled at or legitimately affiliated with, an academic, nonprofit, or government institution, or a commercial company) to develop new analytical methods, validate results, and identify additional genetic variations and alterations in the data. Authors who use data from the project must acknowledge the CCSS using the following wording "This study makes use of data generated by St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital as a part of the Childhood Cancer Survivor Study (CCSS) " and cite the relevant primary SJLIFE publication(s) if one has been published. Details of these publications are at the [SJLIFE website](https://ccss.stjude.org/).  

**Users should note that St. Jude and the CCSS investigators bear no responsibility for the further analysis or interpretation of these data, over and above that published by the CCSS study team.**

!!! warning "Potential Bacterial Contamination"

    Samples for the Childhood Cancer Survivorship Study were collected by sending out Buccal swab kits to enrolled participants and having them complete the kits at home. This mechanism of collecting saliva and buccal cells for sequencing is highly desirable because of its non-invasive nature and ease of execution. However, collection of samples in this manner also has higher probability of contamination from external sources (as compared to, say, samples collected using blood). We have observed some samples in this cohort which suffer from bacterial contamination. To address this issue, we have taken the following steps:

    1. We have estimated the bacterial contamination rate and annotated each of the samples in the CCSS cohort. For each sample, you will find the estimated contamination rate in the `Description` field of the `SAMPLE_INFO.txt` file that is vended with your data (and as a property on the DNAnexus file). For information on this field, see the [Metadata specification](./guides/data/metadata.md).
    2. Using this estimated contamination rate, we have removed 82 samples which exhibited large rates of bacterial contamination.
    3. For the remaining samples, we have provided the `BAM` file as aligned with `bwa mem` with default parameters. We have observed that there are instances of reads originating from bacterial contamination that are erroneously mapped to the human genome and display a *very* low mapping quality. Please be advised that we have kept these reads as they were aligned and have not yet made any attempt to unmap these reads. Any analysis you perform on these samples will need to take this into account!
    4. Last, we will be working over the coming months to unmap the reads originating from bacterial contamination and release updated `BAM` files along with the associated `gVCF` files from Microsoft Genomics Service.

    With any questions on the nature or implications of this warning, please contact us at [support@stjude.cloud](mailto:support@stjude.cloud).

### Embargo Date

The **Embargo Date** specifies the date that a publishing embargo on the file in question has been lifted. Publishing using any of the files _before_ the embargo date has passed is strictly prohibited as outlined in the [Data Access Agreement (DAA)](#data-access-agreement). Typically, samples from the same [Data Access Unit (DAU)](#data-access-unit) all have the same embargo date, as they would have been released on St. Jude Cloud at the same time.

**Current Embargo Dates**

| Data Access Unit                 | Embargo Date      |
| -------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| Pediatric Cancer Genome Project  | July 23, 2018     |
| St. Jude LIFE                    | January 15, 2019  |
| Clinical Genomics                | January 15, 2019  |
| Sickle Cell Genome Project       | September 1, 2019 |
| Childhood Cancer Survivor Study | November 1, 2019 |
